and let's return now to the Middle East
where concerns are growing about an
allout war after 12 children and
teenagers were killed at the weekend
when a rocket fell on a football field
in the Israeli occupied goolan Heights
the attack LED Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu to return early from
the United States to meet his cabinet
which has authorized him and his defense
minister to decide when and how to
retaliate and we're just seeing that
Benjamin Netanyahu has visited the site
of that rocket attack in the goolan
Heights we're just uh hearing that well
let's talk now about this situation with
ha helier he's non-resident scholar at
the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace thank you very much for joining us
and just give us a sense in your view uh
as to how quickly this situation could
escalate and of course that is a big
fear that this could escalate into an
allout regional conflict
so thank you for having me on your
program uh I think the reality is is
that for the past 10 months there's been
the concern that the law of unintended
consequences could lead the region into
a fullscale regional war and uh for at
many points over the past 10 months I
think you've seen different actors be
very Reckless um in retaliating against
one another but also
underestimating how possible it is to
actually do quote unquote calculated
escalations um the Israelis have made it
very clear they are going to strike
Lebanon um it will be soon um I wouldn't
be surprised if it was in the coming few
hours but it will be soon and at the
same time they do not want a regional
War because it's one that they're not
prepared for so they will retaliate um
or they will claim that this is
retaliation because we still don't know
exactly what happened um in the goolan
Heights um but we do know that Israel
will
respond and the question will be can
they respond in a way that isn't going
to Tumble out of control in terms of
consequences and reprisals from hisb um
and I don't think we can be sure of that
I don't know what they have in mind or
what's planned um but I do think it's an
incredibly risky step that they are
planning to undertake as I said very
shortly you were saying it is very
difficult to have a calculated
escalation because of that law of un
unintended consequences you can never be
entirely sure what one action may lead
to um for for our viewers if you would
just tell us a little bit more about the
background to the goolan heights its
strategic significance and and the
reason for the the whole contentiousness
around this this part of the the
region so the Golan Heights is occupied
Syrian territory um Israel invaded it in
1967 and has occupied it ever since and
uh declared it annexed some years later
um I will say that more or less the
entirety of the International Community
recognizes it as occupied territory um
and I'm glad that the BBC continues to
refer to it as the occupied Goan Heights
because indeed it is as occupied
territory as Gaza as the West Bank as
East Jerusalem and the Sinai Peninsula
until the peace treaty between Egypt and
Israel um all of these were territories
that were taken in
1967 um it frankly doesn't serve at the
moment a quote unquote Strategic Benefit
I mean we've moved beyond that due to
the advances in technology and so on um
there are um quite long-standing
concerns around water and you know
connection to Water Supplies but you
know this is all an inheritance from the
1967 war you still have of course a
large Drew mainly Drew population in the
Golan Heights and they maintain quite
strong connections to their Syrian
identity um and it's also very peculiar
to see how uh how his baah would have
targeted them um there is an Israeli
military installation in the Golan
Heights so it may they aimed at that
sorry to uh bring you to uh the end of
your your thought there but we are out
of time HJ helier from the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace thank
you very much